docs/nextauth-static-export.md, before:

# NextAuth and Static Export Compatibility Guide

## Problem Statement

Next.js static export (using `output: 'export'`) is fundamentally incompatible with server-side functionality like NextAuth. When building a static export, Next.js requires all dynamic routes, including API routes like `[...nextauth]`, to have a `generateStaticParams()` function.

However, even with this function correctly implemented, NextAuth routes may still cause build failures because of their inherent server-side nature.

## Our Solution

We've implemented a multi-faceted solution that allows us to use NextAuth in development and dynamic builds, while ensuring static exports succeed for deployment:

1. **CI-Specific Build Script (`ci-build.sh`)**
   - Temporarily removes the NextAuth route during the build process
   - Restores it after the build is complete
   - Used automatically in GitHub Actions workflows

2. **Docker-Specific CI Script**
   - Created in-line during Docker build process
   - Skips NextAuth functionality for Docker builds
   - Outputs to the correct directory for deployment

3. **Environment Variable Control**
   - `SKIP_AUTH` environment variable determines if static export is enabled
   - Set automatically by our build scripts

4. **Verification Script**
   - Checks all API routes for required `generateStaticParams()` function
   - Special handling for NextAuth routes

## Local Development

During local development:

1. NextAuth works normally with `npm run dev`
2. When building for production using `npm run build`, the application still includes NextAuth

## CI/CD Pipeline

In the CI/CD pipeline:

1. The `ci-build.sh` script is used automatically in GitHub Actions
2. A Docker-specific build script is generated for Docker builds
3. NextAuth routes are temporarily removed for the static export
4. The build succeeds without server-side functionality errors
5. Output is directed to the `out` directory for Azure Static Web Apps deployment

## When to Use Which Build Script

- **Regular development**: Use `npm run dev` or `npm run build`
- **Local static export testing**: Use `./ci-build.sh`
- **GitHub Actions**: CI workflow uses `ci-build.sh`
- **Docker builds**: Docker build process creates its own script internally

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter build failures related to NextAuth:

1. Ensure all API routes have the `generateStaticParams()` function
2. Verify the NextAuth route is correctly formatted
3. For static exports, use the `ci-build.sh` script
4. For Docker builds, check the Dockerfile uses the internal script creation approach

## Technical Implementation Details

### NextAuth Route Requirements

For development and server-side rendering, each NextAuth route should include:

```typescript
// This is required for static export in Next.js
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [];
}
```

### Static Export Logic

Our `next.config.mjs` uses this logic to determine when to enable static export:

```javascript
output: process.env.SKIP_AUTH === 'true' && process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production' 
  ? 'export' 
  : undefined,
```

This ensures static export is only enabled when:
1. We're in production mode
2. We've explicitly indicated that auth should be skipped (set by our build scripts)

### Output Directory Configuration

For Azure Static Web Apps deployment, we configure Next.js to output to the `out` directory:

```javascript
distDir: process.env.SKIP_AUTH === 'true' && process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production' 
  ? 'out' 
  : '.next',
```

### Docker Build Process

For Docker builds, we create a script inline during the build process:

```dockerfile
# Create the CI build script for Docker environment
RUN echo '#!/bin/sh' > docker-ci-build.sh && \
    echo 'set -e' >> docker-ci-build.sh && \
    echo 'export SKIP_AUTH=true' >> docker-ci-build.sh && \
    echo 'NODE_ENV=production npm run build' >> docker-ci-build.sh && \
    chmod +x docker-ci-build.sh
```

This approach ensures the script is always available during Docker builds, regardless of the state of the repository.

Commit message:

Fix backup repository name and update documentation

docs/nextauth-static-export.md, after:

# NextAuth and Static Export Compatibility Guide

## Problem Statement

Next.js static export (using `output: 'export'`) is fundamentally incompatible with server-side functionality like NextAuth. When building a static export, Next.js requires all dynamic routes, including API routes like `[...nextauth]`, to have a `generateStaticParams()` function.

However, even with this function correctly implemented, NextAuth routes may still cause build failures because of their inherent server-side nature.

## Our Solution

We've implemented a multi-faceted solution that allows us to use NextAuth in development and dynamic builds, while ensuring static exports succeed for deployment:

1. **CI-Specific Build Script (`ci-build.sh`)**
   - Temporarily removes the NextAuth route during the build process
   - Restores it after the build is complete
   - Used automatically in GitHub Actions workflows

2. **Docker-Specific CI Script**
   - Created in-line during Docker build process
   - Skips NextAuth functionality for Docker builds
   - Outputs to the correct directory for deployment

3. **Environment Variable Control**
   - `SKIP_AUTH` environment variable determines if static export is enabled
   - Set automatically by our build scripts

4. **Verification Script**
   - Checks all API routes for required `generateStaticParams()` function
   - Special handling for NextAuth routes

## Local Development

During local development:

1. NextAuth works normally with `npm run dev`
2. When building for production using `npm run build`, the application still includes NextAuth

## CI/CD Pipeline

In the CI/CD pipeline:

1. The `ci-build.sh` script is used automatically in GitHub Actions
2. A Docker-specific build script is generated for Docker builds
3. NextAuth routes are temporarily removed for the static export
4. The build succeeds without server-side functionality errors
5. Output is directed to the `out` directory for Azure Static Web Apps deployment

## When to Use Which Build Script

- **Regular development**: Use `npm run dev` or `npm run build`
- **Local static export testing**: Use `./ci-build.sh`
- **GitHub Actions**: CI workflow uses `ci-build.sh`
- **Docker builds**: Docker build process creates its own script internally

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter build failures related to NextAuth:

1. Ensure all API routes have the `generateStaticParams()` function
2. Verify the NextAuth route is correctly formatted
3. For static exports, use the `ci-build.sh` script
4. For Docker builds, check the Dockerfile uses the internal script creation approach

### Common Issues and Solutions

#### GitHub Actions Backup Repository Failure

If you see an error like `remote: Repository not found`, ensure:

1. The backup repository exists with the exact name specified in the workflow
2. The `BACKUP_PAT` secret is correctly set in your repository settings
3. The PAT token has the necessary permissions to push to the backup repository

The backup workflow has been modified to use the correct repository name: `AIStudyPlans-backup`.

## Technical Implementation Details

### NextAuth Route Requirements

For development and server-side rendering, each NextAuth route should include:

```typescript
// This is required for static export in Next.js
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [];
}
```

### Static Export Logic

Our `next.config.mjs` uses this logic to determine when to enable static export:

```javascript
output: process.env.SKIP_AUTH === 'true' && process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production' 
  ? 'export' 
  : undefined,
```

This ensures static export is only enabled when:
1. We're in production mode
2. We've explicitly indicated that auth should be skipped (set by our build scripts)

### Output Directory Configuration

For Azure Static Web Apps deployment, we configure Next.js to output to the `out` directory:

```javascript
distDir: process.env.SKIP_AUTH === 'true' && process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production' 
  ? 'out' 
  : '.next',
```

### Docker Build Process

For Docker builds, we create a script inline during the build process:

```dockerfile
# Create the CI build script for Docker environment
RUN echo '#!/bin/sh' > docker-ci-build.sh && \
    echo 'set -e' >> docker-ci-build.sh && \
    echo 'export SKIP_AUTH=true' >> docker-ci-build.sh && \
    echo 'NODE_ENV=production npm run build' >> docker-ci-build.sh && \
    chmod +x docker-ci-build.sh
```

This approach ensures the script is always available during Docker builds, regardless of the state of the repository.
